---
layout: post
title: "RailsConf 2014"
description: "Today wrapped up RailsConf 2014 in Chicago, Illinois and I have to say that it was quite a good time.  This was my first RailsConf and it definitely lived up to its reputation.  From DHH trolling that TDD is nonsense in his Keynote speech to Tenderlove making a live merge of the \"AdequateRecord\" branch into Rails master it was never a dull moment."
redirect_from:
  - /posts/15-railsconf-2014
tags: [ruby, rails, railsconf2014]
---

Today wrapped up RailsConf 2014 in Chicago, Illinois and I have to say that it was quite a good time.  This was my first RailsConf and it definitely lived up to its reputation.  From DHH trolling that TDD is nonsense in his Keynote speech to Tenderlove making a live merge of the "AdequateRecord" branch into Rails master it was never a dull moment.

This year RailsConf was a tracked conference so I didn't get a chance to see every talk although I look forward to catching the recordings on [Ruby Central](http://rubycentral.org/railsconf) as soon as they are released.  Some of my favorite talks included:

* All the Little Things by: Sandi Metz
* The "Rails of JavaScript" won't be a Framework by: Justin Searls
* Cognitive Shortcuts: Models, Visualizations, Metaphors, and Other Lies by: Sam Livingston-Gray
* Debugger Driven Development with Pry by: Joel Turnbull
* Eliminating Inconsistent Test Failures by: Austin Putman
* An Ode to 17 Databases in 33 minutes by: Toby Hede
* Secrets of a World Memory Champion by: Chris Hunt
* Middleman: The missing front end of the Rails API stack by: Brad Gessler

These talks were all very informative and some of them quite humorous and entertaining.  "Baratunde Thurston's":http://baratunde.com/#baratunde keynote speech on day 3 had me in tears.  In one part of his talk he described how he had created "the_swine_flu":https://twitter.com/the_swine_flu on Twitter and then would follow people on Twitter who were talking about the actual swine flu so that they would get messages that "the_swine_flu" was now following them!  Lol.  His talk was full of interesting examples about how technology and humor could be combined to create beautiful things.

I had read Sandi Metz's [Practical Object-Oriented Design in Ruby](http://www.amazon.com/Practical-Object-Oriented-Design-Ruby-Addison-Wesley/dp/0321721330) and couldn't wait to hear her speak in person.  Finally getting the opportunity was a real treat.  Sandi used [The Gilded Rose](https://github.com/professor/GildedRose) kata to illustrate how she would approach refactoring a chunk of nasty legacy code guided by what tests where written.  It was very impressive to hear her talk through her process as she took a mess of conditional statements and turned the code into loosely coupled happiness.

I can't wait until next year to do it all over again in Atlanta, GA 2015.  Thanks RailsConf / RubyCentral for a great and memorable experience!
